docs/source/about.use_potential.rst, before:

Use potential and limitations
=============================

:mod:`spinsim` will be useful for any research group needing quick, accurate, and / or large numbers of simulations involving spin half or spin one systems. This is immediately relevant to developing new quantum sensing protocols with spin one and spin half systems. The package will be used in the context of Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC) magnetic sensing protocol design by our lab, both within and outside the project it was conceived for.

Another example of spin based magnetic field sensing is the use of Nitrogen Vacancy Centres (NVCs). These are spin one structures found in diamond doped with Nitrogen atoms. This leaves a vacancy in a position adjacent to the Nitrogen atom, which pairs of electrons occupy to obtain the spin one properties. Similar to BECs, NVCs can be placed and addressed in 2D arrays in order to take many samples in one measurement. A paper was only recently released covering simulation experiments of neural pulse sensing using NVCs\ :cite:`parashar_axon_2020`.

:mod:`spinsim` is designed to simulate small dimensional quantum systems, including large arrays of non-interacting spin systems. This means that it would not be able to integrate large arrays of entangled states or interacting particles. As a result, despite being fast at simulating qubits, it is inappropriate for the package to be used for quantum computing. In addition, :mod:`spinsim` is currently designed to integrate the time evolution of pure states only. This means that it may not be adequate for use in some Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) applications where relaxation\ :cite:`veshtort_spinevolution_2006` is important (or other kinds of simulations involving decoherence).

With these restrictions in mind, :mod:`spinsim` could be used for some simplified simulations in various areas of NMR. There are many atomic nuclei with spins of half (eg protons, Carbon 13) and, and fewer that have spins of one (eg Lithium 6, Nitrogen 14)\ :cite:`fuller_nuclear_1976`, which, if relaxation and interactions between systems are not important for the application, :mod:`spinsim` could be used to simulate for spectroscopy experiments, for example. The inclusion of a quadrupole operator means that, with the same level of simplifications, :mod:`spinsim` should be able to simulate Nuclear Quadrupole Resonance (NQR) spectroscopy for spin one nuclei\ :cite:`bain_nqr_2004`, such as Nitrogen 14, provided a suitable coordinate system is chosen. This technique measures energy level differences between levels split by electric field gradients, rather than static magnetic bias fields. Another possible use case could be for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) simulation and pulse sequence design. MRI uses measures the response of spins of an array of spin half protons to a spatially varying pulse sequence\ :cite:`mckinnon_physics_1998`, which essentially just corresponds to many separate :mod:`spinsim` simulations of spins at different positions in space. While this package offers some advantages over state of the art simulators in the field\ :cite:`kose_fast_2019`, with its use of quantum mechanics over classical and rotating wave approximations, parametrised pulse sequence definitions, and geometric integrator, again, the lack of interacting particles and decoherence features are likely its downfall here.

Commit message:

Made some modifications to all docs for paper

docs/source/about.use_potential.rst, after:

Use potential and limitations
=============================

:mod:`spinsim` will be useful for any research group needing quick, accurate, and / or large numbers of simulations involving spin half or spin one systems. This is immediately relevant to developing new quantum sensing protocols with spin one and spin half systems. The package will be used in the context of Bose Einstein Condensate (BEC) magnetic sensing protocol design by our lab, both within and outside the project it was conceived for.

This project is to be able to measure neural signals using BECs. The electrical pulses made by neurons are currently measured using electrical probes, which is intrusive and damages the cells. We instead propose to sense the small magnetic fields that these electrical currents produce. Rubidium BECs can potentially be made sensitive enough to these tiny magnetic fields that they can be measured by them. An array of BECs can theoretically be made to sample the frequency components of the magnetic signal, essentially making a Fourier transform of it, which can be transformed back. Assuming that pulses do not occur very often (the signal is sparse in the time domain), a smaller BEC array with fewer frequency samples can be used to create a compressed measurement, reconstructed with theory from the field of compressive sensing :cite:`candes_introduction_2008`. :mod:`spinsim` was written to simulate possible measurement protocols for this, showing the behaviour of the array of spin one atoms interacting with the magnetic fields of the neurons, control signals, and noise.

Another example of spin based magnetic field sensing is the use of Nitrogen Vacancy Centres (NVCs). These are spin one structures found in diamond doped with Nitrogen atoms. This leaves a vacancy in a position adjacent to the Nitrogen atom, which pairs of electrons occupy to obtain the spin one properties. Similar to BECs, NVCs can be placed and addressed in 2D arrays in order to take many samples in one measurement. A paper was only recently released covering simulation experiments of magnetic neural pulse sensing using NVCs\ :cite:`parashar_axon_2020`, which is something that :mod:`spinsim` could be useful for.

:mod:`spinsim` is designed to simulate small dimensional quantum systems, including large arrays of non-interacting spin systems. This means that it would not be able to integrate large arrays of entangled states or interacting particles. As a result, despite being fast at simulating qubits, it is inappropriate for the package to be used for quantum computing. In addition, :mod:`spinsim` is currently designed to integrate the time evolution of pure states only. This means that it may not be adequate for use in some Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) applications where relaxation\ :cite:`veshtort_spinevolution_2006` is important (or other kinds of simulations involving decoherence).

With these restrictions in mind, :mod:`spinsim` could be used for some simplified simulations in various areas of NMR. There are many atomic nuclei with spins of half (eg protons, Carbon 13) and, and fewer that have spins of one (eg Lithium 6, Nitrogen 14)\ :cite:`fuller_nuclear_1976`, which, if relaxation and interactions between systems are not important for the application, :mod:`spinsim` could be used to simulate for spectroscopy experiments, for example. The inclusion of a quadrupole operator means that, with the same level of simplifications, :mod:`spinsim` should be able to simulate Nuclear Quadrupole Resonance (NQR) spectroscopy for spin one nuclei\ :cite:`bain_nqr_2004`, such as Nitrogen 14, provided a suitable coordinate system is chosen. This technique measures energy level differences between levels split by electric field gradients, rather than static magnetic bias fields. Another possible use case could be for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) simulation and pulse sequence design. MRI uses measures the response of spins of an array of spin half protons to a spatially varying pulse sequence\ :cite:`mckinnon_physics_1998`, which essentially just corresponds to many separate :mod:`spinsim` simulations of spins at different positions in space. While this package offers some advantages over state of the art simulators in the field\ :cite:`kose_fast_2019`, with its use of quantum mechanics over classical mechanics, and its absence of rotating wave approximations, its parametrised pulse sequence definitions and geometric integrator, again, the lack of interacting particles and decoherence features are likely its downfall here.
